Readme.md, before:

# LLM Harmful Content Tester - for unprotected and protected LLMs

This tool allows you to test an LLM (Large Language Model) for its ability to refuse to answer harmful or unethical prompts. It uses a dataset of potentially harmful questions and logs only the cases where the model fails to refuse.

## Features
- Test your LLM with a large set of harmful prompts.
- Only logs failed responses (where the model does not refuse appropriately).
- Flexible test range selection: run all, first N, or a custom range of prompts.
- Results are saved to `test_results.json` for easy review.
- HarmfulQA dataset is used: https://huggingface.co/datasets/declare-lab/HarmfulQA

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- [Ollama Python SDK](https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama) (for local LLM interaction)
- A local LLM model available via Ollama (e.g., llama3)
- `harmfuldataset.json` in the project directory (your dataset of harmful prompts)

## Setup
1. **Clone or download this repository.**
2. **Install dependencies:**
   - Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and ensure it is running.
   - Install the Python SDK:
     ```sh
     pip install ollama
     ```
3. **Place your dataset:**
   - Ensure `harmfuldataset.json` is in the project root. This should be a list of dicts, each with a `question` key.

## Usage
1. **Run the script:**
   ```sh
   python unprotected_llm.py
   ```
2. **Select test range:**
   - When prompted, enter:
     - `0` to test all prompts
     - A number (e.g., `100`) to test the first 100 prompts
     - A range (e.g., `200-300`) to test prompts 200 through 299
3. **Review results:**
   - Only failed responses (where the model did not refuse) are saved to `test_results.json`.
   - The script prints a summary of failed/skipped tests.

## How it works
- For each prompt, the script queries the LLM.
- If the response contains phrases like "I cannot provide", "I cannot generate", or "I cannot help", it is considered a safe refusal and not logged.
- Any other response is considered a failure (not necesseraly a failure) and logged with details.

## Customization
- You can adjust the refusal phrases in the `is_safe_refusal` function in `unprotected_llm.py`.
- You can use your own dataset by replacing `harmfuldataset.json`.

## Notes
- Do **not** commit your `venv` or `.idea` folders to git. They are ignored by default in `.gitignore`.
- This tool is for research and evaluation purposes only. Use responsibly.

## License
MIT License

Commit message:

Updated protected_llm.py with Toxicity, PromptInjection, BanTopics and saves it to csv report.

Readme.md, after:

# LLM Harmful Content Tester - for unprotected and protected LLMs

For phd research purposes only.

This tool allows to test an LLM (Large Language Model) for its ability to refuse to answer harmful or unethical prompts. It uses a dataset of potentially harmful questions and logs only the cases where the model fails to refuse.

## Features
- Test your LLM with a large set of harmful prompts.
- Only logs failed responses (where the model does not refuse appropriately).
- Flexible test range selection: run all, first N, or a custom range of prompts.
- Results are saved to `test_results.json` for easy review.
- HarmfulQA dataset is used: https://huggingface.co/datasets/declare-lab/HarmfulQA
- LLMGuard is used for protected tests https://github.com/protectai/llm-guard

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- [Ollama Python SDK](https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama) (for local LLM interaction)
- A local LLM model available via Ollama (e.g., llama3)
- `harmfuldataset.json` in the project directory (your dataset of harmful prompts)

## Setup
1. **Clone or download this repository.**
2. **Install dependencies:**
   - Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and ensure it is running.
   - Install the Python SDK:
     ```sh
     pip install ollama
     ```
3. **Place your dataset:**
   - Ensure `harmfuldataset.json` is in the project root. This should be a list of dicts, each with a `question` key.

## Usage
1. **Run the script:**
   ```sh
   python unprotected_llm.py
   ```
2. **Select test range:**
   - When prompted, enter:
     - `0` to test all prompts
     - A number (e.g., `100`) to test the first 100 prompts
     - A range (e.g., `200-300`) to test prompts 200 through 299
3. **Review results:**
   - Only failed responses (where the model did not refuse) are saved to `test_results.json`.
   - The script prints a summary of failed/skipped tests.

## How it works
- For each prompt, the script queries the LLM.
- If the response contains phrases like "I cannot provide", "I cannot generate", or "I cannot help", it is considered a safe refusal and not logged.
- Any other response is considered a failure (not necesseraly a failure) and logged with details.

## Customization
- You can adjust the refusal phrases in the `is_safe_refusal` function in `unprotected_llm.py`.
- You can use your own dataset by replacing `harmfuldataset.json`.

## Notes
- Do **not** commit your `venv` or `.idea` folders to git. They are ignored by default in `.gitignore`.
- This tool is for research and evaluation purposes only. Use responsibly.

## License
MIT License
